 /ask Regarding the "Coder" part of the AI Agent, is that a Docker file and if so is
 that Docker file open source, and if not could i replace it with my own version of t
he "Coder" part. Furthermore the OPENAI part I like to change it for Claude 3.5 Sonne
t in anthropic. I guess I could add some configuration for this?

Initial repo scan can be slow in larger repos, but only happens once.
Scanning repo: 100%|████████████████████████████| 1193/1193 [00:09<00:00, 119.38it/s]

Based on the file summaries you've provided, I don't see a specific "Coder" component
or Docker file mentioned. However, I can provide some insights based on the code
executor implementations I see in the summaries:

 1 There are multiple code executor implementations:
    • LocalCommandLineCodeExecutor in _impl/local_commandline_code_
    • DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor in _docker_code_executor.py
    • ACADynamicSessionsCodeExecutor in _azure_container_code_executor.py
 2 The DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor is likely the closest to what you're asking
   about. It executes code in a Docker container, but it's not a Docker file itself.
   It's a Python class that interacts with Docker.
 3 All these executors implement the CodeExecutor protocol defined in _base.py, which
   means you could indeed create your own version of a code executor if you wanted to
   replace the existing ones.

Regarding changing OpenAI to Claude 3.5 Sonnet from Anthropic:

 1 The current implementation seems to use OpenAI's API, as seen in
   _openai_client.py.
 2 To use Claude 3.5 Sonnet, you would need to create a new client implementation
   that works with Anthropic's API. This would likely involve creating a new class
   similar to BaseOpenAIChatCompletionClient, but tailored for Anthropic's API.
 3 For configuration, you could add options in the initialization of your AI agent to
   specify which model and API to use. This could be done through environment
   variables, configuration files, or parameters passed when creating the agent.

To implement these changes, you would need to:

 1 Create a new code executor if you want to replace the existing ones.
 2 Implement a new chat completion client for Anthropic's API.
 3 Modify the agent initialization to allow specifying which model and API to use.

However, without seeing the full implementation of the AI agent and how it's
currently configured, I can't give you more specific instructions. If you need more
detailed guidance, you might want to share the relevant parts of the agent
implementation and configuration.


Tokens: 2.4k sent, 434 received. Cost: $0.01 message, $0.01 session.
Add python/packages/autogen-ext/src/autogen_ext/code_executors/_azure_container_code_
executor.py to the chat? (Y)es/(N)o/(A)ll/(S)kip all/(D)on't ask again [Yes]:
Add python/packages/autogen-ext/src/autogen_ext/code_executors/_docker_code_executor.
py to the chat? (Y)es/(N)o/(A)ll/(S)kip all/(D)on't ask again [Yes]:
Thank you for providing those files. Let me address your questions:

 1 Regarding the "Coder" part: The files you've shared don't directly implement a
   "Coder" part. Instead, they provide different code execution environments:
    • _azure_container_code_executor.py implements code execution using Azure
      Container Apps Dynamic Sessions.
    • _docker_code_executor.py implements code execution using a local Docker
      container.
   These are not Docker files themselves, but Python classes that interact with
   containerized environments to execute code.
 2 Replacing the "Coder" part: You can certainly implement your own code executor by
   creating a new class that implements the CodeExecutor interface. This would allow
   you to define your own method of code execution.
 3 Changing OpenAI to Claude 3.5 Sonnet: The files you've shared don't contain any
   OpenAI-specific code. The language model (LLM) choice is typically handled in a
   different part of the AutoGen framework. To use Claude 3.5 Sonnet from Anthropic,
   you would need to modify the part of the code that initializes and interacts with
   the LLM.
 4 Adding configuration: To make the LLM choice configurable, you could add
   configuration options to the main application or agent setup. This isn't directly
   related to the code executors you've shared, but would be part of the broader
   AutoGen setup.

To implement these changes, you would likely need to:

 1 Create a new code executor class if you want to replace the existing ones.
 2 Modify the agent initialization code to use Claude 3.5 Sonnet instead of OpenAI.
 3 Add configuration options to allow easy switching between different LLMs.

These changes would be made in other parts of the AutoGen framework, not in the code
executor files you've shared. If you need help with those specific parts, please
share the relevant files or code sections.


Tokens: 8.1k sent, 390 received. Cost: $0.03 message, $0.04 session.
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
python/packages/autogen-ext/src/autogen_ext/code_executors/_azure_container_code_exe…
python/packages/autogen-ext/src/autogen_ext/code_executors/_docker_code_executor.py
> /ask if i just wanted the orchestrator, and specifically the code executer to work
on a private github repo (thus it would need a github token) to perform code analisys
 and so on, could that be done? Perhaps I could utilize aider as an addition to the c
ode executer?

Yes, it's certainly possible to modify the code executor to work with a private
GitHub repository for code analysis and other tasks. Here's how you could approach
this:

 1 GitHub Integration:
    • You'd need to add GitHub API integration to your code executor.
    • This would involve using a library like PyGithub or the GitHub REST API
      directly.
    • You'll need to securely manage the GitHub token, possibly through environment
      variables or a secure configuration system.
 2 Code Analysis:
    • Once you have access to the repository, you can clone it or fetch specific
      files.
    • You could then perform various types of code analysis on the fetched code.
 3 Using Aider:
    • Aider is a tool that uses GPT to help write and edit code via the command line.
    • You could potentially integrate Aider into your code executor as an additional
      tool.
    • This would involve spawning Aider processes or using it as a library if
      possible.

Here's a rough outline of how you might extend the DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor to
include these features:


 import os
 from github import Github
 from aider import Aider  # This is hypothetical; you'd need to check Aider's actual
 API

 class GithubAwareCodeExecutor(DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor):
     def __init__(self, github_token, repo_name, *args, **kwargs):
         super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
         self.github = Github(github_token)
         self.repo = self.github.get_repo(repo_name)
         self.aider = Aider()  # Again, this is hypothetical

     async def clone_repo(self):
         # Clone the repo into the work directory
         repo_url =
 f"https://{self.github._Github__requester._Requester__auth.token}@github.com/{self.
 po.full_name}.git"
         await self._execute_code_dont_check_setup(
             [CodeBlock(code=f"git clone {repo_url} .", language="sh")],
             CancellationToken()
         )

     async def analyze_code(self, file_path):
         # Perform some code analysis
         # This is a very simple example; you'd want more sophisticated analysis in
 practice
         result = await self._execute_code_dont_check_setup(
             [CodeBlock(code=f"pylint {file_path}", language="sh")],
             CancellationToken()
         )
         return result.output

     async def use_aider(self, prompt):
         # Use Aider to modify code based on a prompt
         # This is hypothetical and would depend on how Aider can be integrated
         result = await self.aider.edit_code(prompt)
         return result

     async def commit_and_push(self, file_path, commit_message):
         # Commit and push changes back to GitHub
         commands = [
             f"git add {file_path}",
             f'git commit -m "{commit_message}"',
             "git push"
         ]
         for cmd in commands:
             await self._execute_code_dont_check_setup(
                 [CodeBlock(code=cmd, language="sh")],
                 CancellationToken()
             )

     # You might want to override execute_code_blocks to include these new
 capabilities


To use this:

 1 You'd need to securely manage the GitHub token, perhaps through environment
   variables.
 2 You'd instantiate this executor with the GitHub token and repo name.
 3 Before running any analysis, you'd call await executor.clone_repo().
 4 You could then use analyze_code, use_aider, and commit_and_push as needed.

Remember, this is a rough outline and would need significant refinement:

 • Error handling needs to be robust.
 • The Aider integration is hypothetical and would need to be implemented based on
   Aider's actual API.
 • You might want to add more GitHub-related functions like creating pull requests.
 • Security considerations are crucial when dealing with tokens and executing code.

This approach gives you a starting point for integrating GitHub and potentially Aider
into your code execution environment. You'd need to adapt it based on your specific
requirements and the actual APIs of the tools you're using.


Tokens: 8.5k sent, 837 received. Cost: $0.04 message, $0.08 session.
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
python/packages/autogen-ext/src/autogen_ext/code_executors/_azure_container_code_exe…
python/packages/autogen-ext/src/autogen_ext/code_executors/_docker_code_executor.py
> /ask if i wanted to utilize the modified AI agent inside my other project that runs
 on modal.com , which has its own lightweight debian containers, how would I best go
about doing that? Perhaps i could simply run all of this code inside a sandbox in mod
al.com ?.. furthermore.. what dockerimage is the code executor utilizing?

Great questions! Let's break this down and address each part:

 1 Utilizing the modified AI agent inside a Modal.com project:

Modal.com provides a platform for running Python code in the cloud, with easy
scalability and containerization. To use your modified AI agent within a Modal
project, you have a few options:

a. Run inside Modal's container:

 • You can package your AI agent code as a Modal function or stub.
 • Modal will automatically create a container environment for your code.

b. Use Modal's sandbox:

 • Modal provides a sandboxed environment that you can use to run arbitrary code.
 • This could be a good option for running your AI agent in a controlled environment.

Here's a basic example of how you might structure this in Modal:


 import modal

 stub = modal.Stub("ai-agent")

 @stub.function()
 def run_ai_agent(input_data):
     # Import and initialize your AI agent here
     agent = YourModifiedAIAgent()
     result = agent.process(input_data)
     return result

 @stub.local_entrypoint()
 def main():
     input_data = "Your input here"
     result = run_ai_agent.remote(input_data)
     print(result)


 2 Running in a sandbox on Modal.com:

Modal's sandboxed environment could indeed be a good fit for running your AI agent,
especially if you need to execute arbitrary code as part of your agent's operations.
You can use Modal's Sandbox class for this:


 from modal import Sandbox

 sandbox = Sandbox()
 result = sandbox.run("print('Hello from sandbox')")


This approach would allow you to run potentially unsafe code in a controlled
environment.

 3 Docker image used by the code executor:

Looking at the DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor class in the _docker_code_executor.py
file you provided, the Docker image is specified as a parameter with a default value:


 def __init__(
     self,
     image: str = "python:3-slim",
     # ... other parameters ...
 ):


So by default, it's using the python:3-slim image, which is a lightweight
Debian-based image with Python 3 installed. However, this can be customized when
instantiating the executor.

To adapt this for use with Modal:

 1 Instead of using Docker directly, you could leverage Modal's container management.
 2 You might need to modify the DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor to work with Modal's
   execution environment instead of managing Docker containers directly.
 3 You could potentially use Modal's Image class to specify custom container
   environments if needed.

Here's a conceptual example of how you might adapt the code executor for Modal:


 import modal

 stub = modal.Stub("code-executor")

 # Define a custom image if needed
 image = modal.Image.debian_slim().pip_install(["your", "required", "packages"])

 @stub.function(image=image)
 def execute_code(code_blocks):
     # Implement code execution logic here
     # This would replace the Docker-specific logic in DockerCommandLineCodeExecutor
     results = []
     for block in code_blocks:
         # Execute the code block and capture the result
         # You might use Python's exec() function or other methods depending on your
 needs
         result = exec_code_block(block)
         results.append(result)
     return results

 @stub.local_entrypoint()
 def main():
     code_blocks = [
         {"language": "python", "code": "print('Hello, World!')"},
         {"language": "python", "code": "result = 2 + 2; print(result)"}
     ]
     results = execute_code.remote(code_blocks)
     print(results)


This approach would allow you to run your code execution logic within Modal's managed
containers, taking advantage of Modal's scaling and isolation features while adapting
the core functionality of your AI agent and code executor.

Remember to handle security carefully, especially when executing arbitrary code, and
make sure to comply with Modal's terms of service and best practices for running code
in their environment.


Tokens: 9.4k sent, 832 received. Cost: $0.04 message, $0.12 session.
─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
python/packages/autogen-ext/src/autogen_ext/code_executors/_azure_container_code_exe…
python/packages/autogen-ext/src/autogen_ext/code_executors/_docker_code_executor.py
> /ask I like the idea that you presented of running the code inside a sandbox in mod
al.com since its also going to download git repositories and execute arbitrary code p
otentially. So how would i set it up if i wanted to download my custom github repo of
 autogen and initialize all necessary things including the gittoken and the custom An
thropic Claude 3.5 client? Also how do i make the AI Agent aware that it has the capa
bility to download the github repo that we want to work on? Perhaps we need to make a
nother addition like we have "web surfer" and "file surfer" parts of the AI agent but
 we could also add a "Github loader" part that is responsible for cloning the project
at first?

Excellent ideas! Let's design a solution that incorporates a sandbox environment in
Modal.com, initializes your custom Autogen setup with a GitHub token and Anthropic
Claude 3.5 client, and adds a "GitHub Loader" capability to the AI Agent. Here's a
step-by-step approach:

 1 Set up the Modal.com environment:


 import modal
 import os
 from anthropic import Anthropic

 # Define the stub for our Modal app
 stub = modal.Stub("autogen-github-analyzer")

 # Create a custom image with necessary dependencies
 image = (
     modal.Image.debian_slim()
     .pip_install(["anthropic", "pygithub", "your-custom-autogen-package"])
     .apt_install(["git"])
 )

 # Create a secret for storing sensitive information
 secrets = modal.Secret.from_dict({
     "GITHUB_TOKEN": os.environ["GITHUB_TOKEN"],
     "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY": os.environ["ANTHROPIC_API_KEY"]
 })


 2 Create a sandbox function for code execution:


 @stub.function(image=image, secret=secrets, cpu=2, memory=4096)
 def sandbox_execute(code: str):
     exec(code, globals())
     return globals().get('result', None)


 3 Implement the GitHub Loader:


 from github import Github

 class GitHubLoader:
     def __init__(self, token):
         self.github = Github(token)

     def clone_repo(self, repo_name, local_path):
         repo = self.github.get_repo(repo_name)
         clone_url =
 f"https://{self.github.get_user().login}:{self.github._Github__requester._Requester
 auth.token}@github.com/{repo.full_name}.git"
         os.system(f"git clone {clone_url} {local_path}")
         return f"Repository {repo_name} cloned to {local_path}"

 github_loader = GitHubLoader(os.environ["GITHUB_TOKEN"])


 4 Set up the Anthropic Claude 3.5 client:


 anthropic_client = Anthropic(api_key=os.environ["ANTHROPIC_API_KEY"])


 5 Create a custom AI Agent with GitHub awareness:


 from your_custom_autogen import Agent, Message  # Import your custom Autogen classe

 class GitHubAwareAgent(Agent):
     def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
         super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
         self.github_loader = github_loader

     async def handle_message(self, message: Message):
         if "clone_repo" in message.content.lower():
             # Extract repo name from message (you might want to implement a more
 robust parsing)
             repo_name = message.content.split("clone_repo")[-1].strip()
             result = self.github_loader.clone_repo(repo_name, "/tmp/repo")
             return Message(content=result)

         # Handle other message types...
         return await super().handle_message(message)


 6 Set up the main function to initialize and run your AI Agent:


 @stub.function(image=image, secret=secrets, cpu=2, memory=4096)
 def run_ai_agent(input_message: str):
     # Initialize your custom Autogen setup
     agent = GitHubAwareAgent(
         name="GitHub Analyzer",
         llm_client=anthropic_client,
         sandbox_execute=sandbox_execute
     )

     # Process the input message
     result = agent.process(input_message)
     return result

 @stub.local_entrypoint()
 def main():
     input_message = "Clone the repo myuser/myrepo and analyze its structure"
     result = run_ai_agent.remote(input_message)
     print(result)


This setup accomplishes several things:

 1 It creates a Modal.com environment with necessary dependencies and secrets.
 2 It implements a sandbox for safe code execution.
 3 It creates a GitHub Loader class for cloning repositories.
 4 It sets up the Anthropic Claude 3.5 client.
 5 It creates a custom AI Agent that's aware of its GitHub capabilities.
 6 It provides a main function to run the AI Agent in the Modal.com environment.

To make the AI Agent aware of its GitHub capabilities, we've extended the base Agent
class with a GitHubAwareAgent that can handle "clone_repo" requests. You can expand
this to include other GitHub-related actions as needed.

To use this setup:

 1 Ensure your custom Autogen package is available (either published or added to the
   Modal image).
 2 Set the GITHUB_TOKEN and ANTHROPIC_API_KEY environment variables.
 3 Run the Modal app, which will execute your AI Agent in the cloud.

This structure allows you to safely clone and analyze GitHub repositories, execute
code in a sandboxed environment, and leverage the Anthropic Claude 3.5 model for AI
tasks, all within the Modal.com infrastructure. You can further expand the
GitHubAwareAgent to handle more complex GitHub interactions and code analysis tasks
as needed.
